chore(docs): Fix docs starting with n (#19065)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/node-creation.md

title: Node Creation
---

> Calling the [createNode](/docs/actions/#createNode) action creates nodes. Which can be any object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling the [createNode](/docs/actions/#createNode) action creates Node objects.
```

> Redux stores nodes under the `nodes` namespace, whose state is a map of the node ID to the actual node object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redux stores nodes in the `nodes` namespace which is a map of ID to node Object.
```

## Sourcing Nodes

> The creation of nodes occurs primarily in the [sourceNodes](/docs/node-apis/#sourceNodes) bootstrap phase. Nodes created during this phase are top level nodes. I.e, they have no parent. source plugins setting the node's `parent` field to `null` represents this. Nodes created via transform plugins (who implement [onCreateNode](/docs/node-apis/#onCreateNode)) will have source nodes as their parents, or other transformed nodes. For a rough overview of what happens when source nodes run, see the [traceID illustration](/docs/how-plugins-apis-are-run/#using-traceid-to-await-downstream-api-calls).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The creation of nodes occurs primarily in the [sourceNodes](/docs/node-apis/#sourceNodes) bootstrap phase. Nodes created during this phase are top level nodes (i.e. they have no parent). Source plugins set the node's `parent` field to `null` to represent this. Nodes created via transformer plugins (which implement [onCreateNode](/docs/node-apis/#onCreateNode)) set source nodes as their parents, or other transformed nodes. For a rough overview of what happens when `sourceNodes` runs, see the [traceID illustration](/docs/how-plugins-apis-are-run/#using-traceid-to-await-downstream-api-calls).
```

### Explicitly recording a parent/child relationship

> This occurs when a transformer plugin implements [onCreateNode](/docs/node-apis/#onCreateNode) in order to create some child of the originally created node. In this case, the transformer plugin will call [createParentChildLink](/docs/actions/#createParentChildLink), with the original node, and the created node. All this does is push the child's node ID onto the parent's `children` collection and resave the parent to redux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This occurs when a transformer plugin implements [onCreateNode](/docs/node-apis/#onCreateNode) in order to create some child of the originally created node. In this case, the transformer plugin will call [createParentChildLink](/docs/actions/#createParentChildLink), with the original node, and the newly created node. All this does is push the child's node ID onto the parent's `children` collection and resave the parent to redux.
```

Not sure if we need to remove this?

Author: Me niether. Will revert this.

}
```

> The value for `baz` is itself an object. That value's parent is the top level object. In this case, Gatsby simply saves the top level node as is to redux. It doesn't attempt to extract `baz` into its node. But it tracks the subobject's root NodeID using [Node Tracking](/docs/node-tracking/)

Reviewer: I would revert this change? I don't think this is in the scope of the issue that we mean to address?

Author: You are right, reverting this.

During schema compilation, Gatsby will infer the sub object's type while [creating the gqlType](/docs/schema-gql-type#plain-object-or-value-field).

## Fresh/stale nodes

> Every time a build is re-run, there is a chance that a node that exists in the redux store no longer exists in the original data source. E.g. a file might be deleted from disk between runs. We need a way to state that fact to Gatsby.

Reviewer: See comment above

Author: Reverting it.

To track this, there is a redux `nodesTouched` namespace that tracks whether a particular node ID has been touched. This occurs whenever a node is created (handled by [CREATE_NODE](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/packages/gatsby/src/redux/reducers/nodes-touched.js)), or an explicit call to [touchNode](/docs/actions/#touchNode).

When a `source-nodes` plugin runs again, it generally recreates nodes (which automatically touches them too). But in some cases, such as [transformer-screenshot](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/packages/gatsby-transformer-screenshot/src/gatsby-node.js#L56), a node might not change, but we still want to keep it around for the build. In these cases, we must explicitly call `touchNode`.

> Any nodes that aren't touched by the end of the `source-nodes` phase are deleted. This is performed via a diff between the `nodesTouched` and `nodes` redux namespaces, in [source-nodes.js](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/packages/gatsby/src/utils/source-nodes.js)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any nodes that aren't touched by the end of the `sourceNodes` phase are deleted. This is performed via a diff between the `nodesTouched` and `nodes` redux namespaces, in [source-nodes.js](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/packages/gatsby/src/utils/source-nodes.js)
```

## Changing a node's fields

From a site developer's point of view, nodes are immutable. In the sense that if you simply change a node object, other parts of Gatsby will not see those changes. To make a change to a node, it must be persisted to redux via an action.

> So, how do you add a field to an existing node? E.g. in onCreateNode, you want to add a transformer specific field? You can call [createNodeField](/docs/actions/#createNodeField) and this will simply add your field to the node's `node.fields` object and then persists it to redux. Then the other parts of your plugin at later stages of the build can reference this.

Reviewer: Unsure if this is necessary? I personally find the current state more readable 🤷‍♂

Author: I thought it would be better to convert from **passive voice**.

> Other parts can reference this
Sounded rather cleaner to me than:
> This can be referenced by other parts

I'm not a native speaker, and I'm not sure about any of these changes. Please let me know which one is actually better, I will revert it asap.
